# SNHU-CS340-Coursework

### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I like to break the tasks down into smaller pieces. It helps me gain a better understanding of what needs to be done. Once I understand what needs to be done, I develop each function seperately. This makes it less overwhelming and easier for me to debug later on. In my CRUD Python module, I organized it by creating separate functions for Create, Read, Update, and Delete. This way, each part could be fixed independently without having to worry about affecting anything else in the program. I could reuse this CRUD module in the future if the project required database management or a dashboard.

### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
As a computer scientist, I approach problems by breaking them into smaller, manageable parts and planning a solution to fix them step-by-step. For the dashboard requirements, I first analyzed what the requirements were, broke them down into small pieces, and organized my list so that I knew what needed to be done first. I started with setting up the database, then I created the CRUD functions, and then finally created a dashboard and connected the three together. This project was different from some previous assignments because it required multiple components instead of a standalone program. I had to make sure that the database was set up correctly and that the credentials worked, had to make sure that my CRUD functions were working, and then had to make sure that my database, CRUD module, and dashboard were connected properly. In the future, I would continue to clearly define project requirements and test each component before integrating them together.

### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer Scientists solve problems by building systems that help organizations use technology effectively. They create tools that help organizations store, organize, and visualize data so that they can work more efficiently and make better decisions. For this project, the dashboard I created organizes animal data and presents it in a clear, easy-to-read format. This makes it simple for users to understand important information quickly.
